.\"	Process this file with groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH imyplay 1 Linux "User's Manual"

.SH NAME
imyplay \- A program for playing iMelody ringtones (IMY files).

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imyplay [options]
.I ringtone.imy
.B ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The imyplay program plays the given iMelody files or converts them to MIDI format.
IMYplay can use the following libraries to produce sound: the Allegro game library,
SDL (Simple DirectMedia Layer), ALSA (Advanced Linux Sound Architecture),
OSS (Open Sound System), libao, PortAudiov19, PulseAudio, JACK1/JACK2, GStreamer
(gstreamer-plugin-base required).

It can also write raw samples to an output file, use the PC-speaker or
call an external program on each note.

.SH OPTIONS (for the full version)

.IP "-d|--device <dev>"
Try to use the given device (ALSA, OSS, GStreamer, PC-speaker), driver ID
(libao) or server name (JACK1, PulseAudio) for sound output or set the sampling
rate and samples' format (case-insensitive: s16le,
s16be, u16le, u16be, s8le, s8be, u8le, u8be), e.g.
"--dev 44100:s16le" for the FILE, Allegro, PortAudio
and SDL backends.
.IP "-e|--exec <program>"
Execute the given program instead of normal sound output. Overrides the
.B --output
option.

You can pass the following expressions in the
<program> argument and these will get substituted by the correct values when
the program is about to be started:

%i - the tone frequency as an integer (rounded), example: 523. Zero means a pause.

%f - the tone frequency as a floating point number (accurate), example: 523.250916.
Zero means a pause.

%d - the tone/pause duration in seconds as an integer (rounded), example: 1.
This equals to %m divided by 1000.

%s - the tone/pause duration in seconds as a floating point number (accurate),
example: 1.25. This equals to %l divided by 1000.

%m - the tone/pause duration in milliseconds as an integer (rounded),
example: 1250. This equals to %d (not rounded) times 1000.

%l - the tone/pause duration in milliseconds as a floating point number
(accurate), example: 1250.3. This equals to %s (not rounded) times 1000.

%v - the tone's volume, form 0 to 15 inclusive.

Any other %X expressions will NOT be altered.

.IP "-f|--file <file>"
Write raw samples to this file instead of normal sound output. Overrides the
.B --output
option.
Use
.B --dev
to specify the sampling rate and samples' format.
.IP -h|--help
Print help.
.IP -l|--license
Print license information.
.IP "--midi-instr <number>"
Use the given MIDI instrument number.
.IP "-o|--output <system>"
Use the given sound output system (allegro, sdl, alsa, oss, ao/libao, portaudio/port,
jack, pulseaudio/pulse, gstreamer/gst, speaker/pcspeaker/spkr/pcspkr). Names are NOT case-sensitive.

PC-Speaker output may require the "snd-pcsp" kernel module to be loaded and
permissions to access "/dev/console".

JACK output: if the JACK server doesn't start automatically, you can run it
yourself with e.g. "jackd -d alsa -r 44100 -p 8192 &".

.IP --to-midi
Convert the given files to MIDI format (if the target file exists, it is deleted).
Overrides the
.B --output
option.
.IP -V|--version
Print version number.

.LP
Alternatively to using the --output option, you can launch the program as
"imyplay-alsa", "imyplay-allegro" and so on (these can be symbolic links
or copies of the executable file). This overrides the default order of
output systems, but does NOT override the
.B --to-midi
,
.B -f/--file
and
.B -e/--exec
options.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program returns with 0 exit code if everything went fine. If there
were errors, the program exits with non-zero exit code:
.IP 1:
Only version number, help or licence information was requested and printed, no action.
.IP \-1:
Bad/missing command line syntax.
.IP \-2:
Unable to initialize the sound library.
.IP \-3:
Unable to close the sound library.
.IP \-4:
Unable to open the given file.
.IP \-100:
A signal was caught and the program was forced to exit.

.SH NOTES
The error code is reset after each file played. If the last file was played successfully,
but the previous weren't, their errors are currently lost.

.SH AUTHOR
Bogdan 'bogdro' Drozdowski,
bogdandr /AT/ op . pl

bogdro /AT/ rudy . mif . pg . gda . pl

[EN] http://imyplay.sf.net

[PL] http://imyplay.sf.net/index-pl.php

[EN] http://bogdro.evai.pl/soft/

[EN] http://bogdro.evai.pl/inne/

[PL] http://bogdro.evai.pl/

[EN] http://bogdro.evai.pl/index-en.php

[EN] http://bogdro.byethost18.com/soft/

[EN] http://bogdro.byethost18.com/inne/

[PL] http://bogdro.byethost18.com/

[EN] http://bogdro.byethost18.com/index-en.php

[EN] http://rudy.mif.pg.gda.pl/~bogdro/soft/

[EN] http://rudy.mif.pg.gda.pl/~bogdro/inne/

[PL] http://rudy.mif.pg.gda.pl/~bogdro/

.SH THANKS
Steven Goodwin (StevenGoodwin@gmail.com) for MIDI writing code.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
The 'info' documentation is more descriptive and is the main one. Type

.B 	info imyplay

to read it.
